We have arrived at the very last session. of the day. The very last session of the con, I hope we have all learned a number of things, at least half of which will stick in our minds, the rest of it.
Maybe when we watch the talks again on YouTube. So we have two more talks. And then, you know, whatever festivities we choose to close this thing out with. So my ask is that we… Lock in.
Pay attention to the last couple speakers. Eat our last few cookies.
Start to quiet down, take our conversations out of the room.
Downstairs to the overflow space. Uh, and give our last couple speakers, uh, the same respect we've given to the rest of them. Uh, up next, so the two, the two talks that we have to close ourselves out are kind of…
Uh, a little bit of a grab bag, uh, so we're gonna first, uh, first talk about, uh, the AI automation boundary, and then, uh, the last… talk is detection and deception from the folks at Grey Noise. But first, please welcome Arthi.
Hello, can everyone hear me? All right. Okay, so I'm gonna try to keep y'all engaged for the next 20 minutes. I know it's been a long day, but in this session, I'm going to be talking about exploring the AI automation boundary for threat hunting.
My name is Arthi Nagarajan, I am a software engineer at Datadog. I work closely with internal threat intelligence and detection teams to productionize and scale up their security processes.
Over the past 6 to 9 months, we've been developing an AI-powered threat hunting tool called the Hunting Copilot. I'll share the lessons we learned along the way and how our understanding of the automation boundary for AI in threat hunting evolved through real-world use.
Our goal is to equip our internal threat hunting teams with tools to accelerate their hunts.
As a developer, there are two questions I needed to answer. What should we automate, and how should we automate it?
Threat hunting is reminiscent of trying to find a needle in a haystack, a magnitude of data that looks normal to the untrained eye, but the attack is written in between the lines.
A Datadog are hunters search through a massive volume of logs from many different sources with varying schemas. It's really tedious to figure out which queries will surface the antenna data. And these queries are really important because they eventually become detection rules.
That's why we mainly decided to automate query generation, since log data is represented as text, it seemed like an obvious use case for LLMs.
This was our first question. Are modern LLMs good at threat hunting out of the box? If this is true, my job would be super easy.
And we started really simple. We used OpenAI's GPT-4.1 model in a single agent, equipped it with web search capabilities, and the AWS Knowledge MCP for searching CloudTrail schema documentation.
In the system prompt, we link the Datadog syntax documentation and provided some threat hunting hypotheses to query examples and just said, hey, you're a threat hunting agent, do your thing.
The results were okay, given a broad threat hunting prompt that agent would generate several specific hypotheses with corresponding Datadog Lucen queries. Response time was really fast, an average of five seconds. However, syntax error rate was quite high at 25%.
Our hunters complained about the aggressive hypothesis production and the frequently misnamed fields and irrelevant values. They also wanted the agent to automatically rule out some false positives. For instance, if the service logs are associated with a known testing account.
It should interpret that. In summary, the major failures of our first iteration were low syntax accuracy, low semantic accuracy. So this means that the query does not surface the antenna data because the fields are wrong. I'm gonna be talking about schema and saying the word schema, like, a thousand times in this talk.
But this is really the crux of our work on this tool.
It also struggled with low relevance, so it wasn't using the data to drive conclusions, and we attributed a lot of this to ineffective tool usage. It was just ignoring whatever tools we provided it.
We concluded that LLMs are bad at threat hunting, and we had to go back to the basics and understand what their capabilities actually were.
LLMs are good at… Synthesis, pattern matching, and translation. We needed to focus on reducing threat hunting into problems of these categories.
Before I get into the second iteration of the Hunting Copilot, I have to address the obvious obstacle in the AI threat hunting space, and that's data.
Let's start with the nature of the log data we're querying.
At Datadog, we have large volumes of telemetry with look-back periods of up to 450 days. And these logs are composed of faceted fields, which are indexed and easy to filter on, and many unfaceted fields. These are raw attributes that can be searched, but they aren't indexed.
And this is what makes capturing the full schema of a source or index in a small number of tokens very challenging. It's even harder to understand what kinds of values exist for each field without actually querying the data.
We also have customizable ingestion pipelines that increase automation complexity. And finally, threat hunting in general is hard to capture concretely because the success criteria is very ambiguous.
The inputs, outputs, and methods used differ greatly from hunt to hunt and hunter to hunter.
Fundamentally, this means we don't have a reliable ground truth readily available, neither for query generation nor for overall threat hunting.
We thought about fine-tuning our agent before anyone asked, and the solution only makes sense if you have access to good threat hunting data. By good data, I mean data that is representative, well-labeled, and in abundance. We did not already have a well-curated corpus of past threat hunts with consistent inputs and outputs labeled in a way that can apply to unseen hunts.
Given the amount of time and resources it would have taken to produce this, and the fact that we needed to deliver results quickly, we decided to stick to advanced prompt engineering techniques. Fine-tuning was just too high risk and high effort with expected low return.
This is the point in our journey where we had to reframe the problem. Our hunters needed this agent to be accurate and useful. After syntax accuracy, semantic accuracy was the top weakness. And, in other words, queries that were syntactically valid were still answering the wrong question.
So we reframed the problem around field discovery. We sat down with our threat hunters and asked them to walk us through how they analyze logs in a hunt. We found that their process was fortunately repeatable. It's a mix of informed guessing, sampling, and iterative refinement.
They start with an initial hypothesis and broad queries. They dive into the raw logs and inspect sample values. Then they tweak their query and repeat this process until they find something valuable.
We call this process log schema exploration. Instead of relying on documentation as a source of truth, the schema should be derived directly from the data.
We shifted the boundary more towards AI with automated data analysis. So use the data to drive conclusions. And this would address the hunter's request to rule out some false positives as well.
There were several sub-iterations that led to V2, but the core shift was towards a multi-agent framework. We introduced reasoning models such as GPT-5.1, and implemented an orchestrator expert framework. We also added the Datadog MCP server, and this allowed the agent to execute the queries it generated and then validate them against real logs. One of the most valuable features of this.
is that it returns concise corrections when something is wrong, and that was the key to improving syntax accuracy.
Lastly, we tightened the system prompt and defined iterative query refinement behaviors, as well as stop conditions. And we noticed that the agent struggled with tricky syntax, like negation or JSON policy document formatting, which our threat hunters love to search on.
and wildcard placement. So we provided more concrete construction rules in this case for that.
This is an overview of the architecture. We have the orchestrator, it's handling the investigation flow, maintaining the overall hunt context. It then gathers source documentation from expert subagents, such as for AWS CloudTrail or GCP audit logs.
It then calls the Datadog agent, and it's essentially a wrapper for the Datadog MCP. It generates an iteratively refines queries based on the data. We notice that queries that return zero results were most likely semantically incorrect. So we just biased the agent towards generating logs results.
Our stop conditions were both quantitative, so cap the number of iterations at 5, and subjective. If you find logs and can reach a conclusion, stop iterating.
This divide-and-conquer approach reduced overall context load, um, context overload, and made each step more controlled and precise.
With this architecture, we noticed a huge improvement in syntax accuracy by 17%, and slightly better semantic accuracy, but tool usage increased. All this, however, was at the cost of response speed. We went from an average of 5 seconds per response to 6 minutes, some edge cases taking.
30 minutes to an hour. Our users were not happy with this response time, and semantic accuracy was still hindered by persistent hallucination. This was because query execution's often timed out, or the results were truncated. Sampling log data was just too computationally exhaustive to be handled by the agent alone.
We learned a lot about the trade-offs of multi-agent frameworks and powerful MCP tools with V2, and it all comes down to context. This principle hasn't changed. Threat hunting workflows overload context if you manage the context well, you'll see results improve.
The core lessons from V2 were that we should use reasoning sparingly. It was way too slow for production use cases, and if you use it, you should provide reasoning transparency to the user.
Multi-agent frameworks are an excellent way to manage context. So the orchestrator is building context over the course of a hunt, but each expert agent, it starts fresh every time it's called.
Based on how you conquer and divide, these sub-agents can become excellent at their specific task, and you save context space for the overall hunt.
However, delegation introduces its own cost. Every handoff adds latency, and agent coordination will increase complexity.
A quick note on chaining. We noticed that chains of length over 3 were subject to getting stuck downstream, especially if there was some looping, and that's what we had with the iterative refinement in the Datadog agent.
So we try to keep our architecture at three layers or less.
Tools are crucial, but they need to be concise and informative. We design tools to return short suggestions to take the burden of correction off of the agent, and we always specified a concise list of allowed tools for MCP servers that expose many.
The system prompt should describe which tool should be called at which step.
And I am aware of the very fickle nature of making bold claims on what AI can and cannot do. I did see the talks yesterday, especially Anthropic, Nicholas, Opus 4.5 and 4.6 were released quite recently. So Ozzy's LLMs get more powerful and the context window increases. You can simplify your architecture while keeping hallucinations low. But I'd argue that right now for threat hunting, multi-agent frameworks are still necessary for the best results.
Achieving high query syntax accuracy was pretty easy. But semantic accuracy is really hard because of the high volume and density of the data.
There are four fundamental approaches that we've been exploring to manage this. So the first is external documentation and AI. It's basically you're trying to make an educated guess on what the schema may look like at Datadog. And in practice, this wasn't very representative of the data.
Law clustering and aggregations, they can really help cut down the logs that need to be analyzed. However, it's very easy to misjudge which facets to aggregate on, and the agent usually guesses wrong.
The built-in clustering within the Datadog logs platform, if you've seen it, it's based on the message body or status. And that's not always relevant to the hunts. Our hunters love aggregating on super niche facets and attributes.
We could preprocess with ingestion pipeline data. So build an understanding of schema statically. We gather all the remappers and grok parsers from the configuration pipeline, and then we feed that into the context, but it still misses some information and it's consuming a lot of context space.
And it's also subject to change, so we still need a more dynamic approach. That would be live sampling. Dynamically learn schema from the data. And again, this is computationally exhaustive. So we had to shift the expectation of handling this away from AI agents and towards the tools.
Our solution is a sort of coordinated dance amongst all of these options, and we fortify and tweak reliance on each one based on the performance that we're seeing.
Okay, evaluations. A pretty painstaking, so undeniably important topic. The data problem I mentioned earlier, it applies here. We do not have a well-curated corpus of threat hunting data for a traditional evaluation system.
Even when we generated that data, we noticed that evaluation results were not reflective of its performance in unseen hands. These traditional evaluation systems with inputs and expected outputs, they just produced a bunch of statistics. And oftentimes they showed high accuracy for certain tasks.
But our users disagreed. So, passing evaluations did not always correlate with trust.
A single number to capture the performance can be quite misleading. Like, claiming that an agent is 95% accurate, that could mean anything. And it makes you think that it'll be accurate 95% of the time in future hunts. What matters is it's the data, rubrics and scoring mechanisms behind the evaluation mechanism that actually carries the truth. And so.
There's this trade-off between the time invested into a robust evaluation system and developing the tool.
Especially given the size of our team. So, we invested time into other eval strategies.
Our strategy was to prioritize trends, comparative metrics, and human feedback over static benchmark performance. We conducted A-B testing during our hunt weeks, so human versus machine. Some hunters use the tool, and others didn't, and we compared their respective results.
We rely on a frequent and tight user feedback loop, and also collect data as the hunters use the tool to figure out when and how they choose to use it. Because for us, usage corresponded to success.
We pruned non-essential evaluation metrics and distilled it down to a few tasks that traditional benchmarking made sense for, like response speed or syntax accuracy, because we have, like, a Datadog syntax validation checker. For semantic accuracy, we're not just pinning an LLM-based judge against it, like, that would be circular, because we just… I just argued that LLMs aren't very skilled at that.
What we do instead is that we run the agent on our test prompts, and we extract the unique queries, and then we run them to see the results. For the test cases that didn't have any results, we would do a lot of manual verification. And we did, you know, we did add an LLM judge on that, but it's kind of a combination of different… Tactics as opposed to just…
What does LLM-based judge think, um, off the bat?
All right. So that was kind of the preface and how we built it, and now I want to walk through how our tool aided our hunters in a recent AWS privilege escalation hunt week.
One of our hunters focused on an escalation path with the IAM create login profile event. This is a pretty dense slide, so I'll try to walk you through it as best as I can. Starting on the left.
Top left, you can see that the agent generated a starting query and automatically brought in the scope from one day to seven days, then eventually 30 days. Moving down.
The Asian identified six distinct targets and correctly assumed that they were associated with test accounts. It identified the type of password reset behavior that made some of these events suspicious versus not.
I had to redact some of this information, but funny enough, these users were actually generated by one of our security research teams as test threat actors, so it was pretty cool that our agent could identify them. There was no incident, but definitely identifying suspicious behavior.
And then, moving to the right, or… yes, I think my rights and lefts are confused, but it then provided a verdict of likely benign as well as next steps for verifying them and potential pivots. It named, these are the users you should reach out to and figure out if they're actually authorized to have these roles.
Our hunter also progressed it by asking if there were subsequent console logins for the created users. So the agent generated a new query and identified that there wasn't any evidence of that.
And I did it for all of the relevant users that it found in the prior request.
So this was a pretty good success case, and I think what also made it successful is that there was a hunter that was driving it with a very concrete playbook. Um, so the agent was doing a lot of the searching and the data analysis, but the hunt was kind of defined, or the playbook was defined by the expert in this case.
Last thing I wanted to show is some of our reasoning transparency. So, basically, it's a little bit dense, but these are the requests that were sent to the sub-agent, so it called the AWS agent once, and the Datadog agent numerous number of times to really do that iterative refinement. So it's both Datadog agent calling the Datadog MCP a bunch of times, and the orchestrator agent calling the Datadog agent a bunch of times. So there's two loops here.
We also ran an A-B testing week in the same AWS Privilege escalation Hunt Week.
Team A utilize the hunting co-pilot, and Team B was a more experienced threat hunter, could not use the hunting co-pilot, but they could use ChatGPT, it didn't make sense to cut out AI usage entirely.
We tracked live metrics for the tool, but we also had them fill out rubrics and questionnaires for subjective scoring.
There were many hypotheses explored during this week, so we reviewed the results holistically and compared similar hypotheses. This is because we wanted to minimize testing disruption for their hunts, like, these are actual production hunts, and they're expected to deliver results from these. When we compared the results of the two teams, we found that the hunting co-pilot cut the average query iteration time from 10 minutes to five minutes.
And the hunt duration for each of these hypotheses were about 60 minutes, and the tool helped save 25 of those minutes. We also noticed that the response times all remained under 6 minutes for this week in particular.
When we looked at the subjective scores, the tool succeeded in hypothesis relevancy and context awareness. It stayed on track, and it used the data to drive conclusions. However, on more complex hypotheses, where a lot of data needed to be analyzed, it struggled with signal-to-noise control.
The data volume is just too high, and it wasn't able to automatically garner insights from the surface logs because there was a lot of truncation happening.
So, there's still room for improvement, and it helped us decide which solutions of the four I was talking about to prioritize for semantic accuracy.
Also, if you're curious, the Hunt Week produced, um, two new cloud detection rules and uncovered zero incidents.
We garnered a deeper understanding of the automation boundary and how we can help our hunters. Currently, our automation boundary is threefold. In addition to query generation and data analysis, our hunters also wanted the agent to pull in different sources and pivot on these hypotheses.
More precisely, when we saw reduced performance, we refocused AI usage on the components that actually mapped to its trends, like summarization and synthesis. It was optimal for our team to let the threat hunters drive the hunt.
Focus on automating field discovery with high accuracy, and provide a convenient single platform to query all telemetry sources with one language, which in this case was English.
Thank you so much. Um, I have a link to the public version of the slides in my LinkedIn in the corner. Um, thanks again for listening, and let me know if you have any questions.
Students? Very good. Thank you.
For the LLM judges you talked about, did you use different LLM providers, like different foundation models or different local models? And which models were the most, uh… If you did, which models were in the most agreement with a human judge, or how often did they kind of differ in their opinion of the judging? Yeah, that's a good question. We didn't do a very thorough analysis of how different models and different providers.
Gave different results, especially for evaluation, I think we just didn't invest that much time. What we did compare was reasoning versus non-reasoning. And so for the judge, honestly, we had to prioritize speed in that case, so we opted… we didn't opt for reasoning because we didn't really notice a huge improvement in accuracy or how well it thought, like, similar to a human.
So we were prioritizing speed in that case and more manual verification. So I guess the short answer is we didn't do a thorough analysis there. But we did notice a huge difference between reasoning and non-reasoning models.
Did you guys ever, like, went into, like, some sort of, like, a confidence score?
Um, the reason I mention that is I think Salesforce guys did a presentation about anomaly detection and whatnot, and they would… annotate, like, some sort of, like, a confidence score, like a low, medium, or high. I don't know if you guys thought about that or looked into it.
Uh, so conference score on what the agent is producing.
Yeah, I think we didn't generate, like… a conference score meaning, like, how confident the agent is in this answer, because a lot of it, it was… it tended to be quite confident, because we were giving it, like, a prompt of, you are to generate very accurate Datadog Lucene queries, and it would think that it was generating accurate Lucene queries, and similarly, when we try to judge it, the judge was like, this is 100% correct.
It was a very circular, so that's not something we focused on, because it wasn't reflective of how it actually performed with our users.
Yeah. Great. All right, thank you very much.
All right, this is our last scheduled talk of the day, and we're continuing on the threat intelligence.
hunting theme. Uh, this time we're, uh, bringing a couple colleagues from, uh, from Grey Noise, so please welcome Bob and Glenn. Thanks.
We have a fan, that's great. Hey, everybody. This is the last talk of the day. This is an epic day. I learned a lot today. I wish this conference was held back in November, could have saved me and Glenn a lot of work along the way. I'm Bob, this is Glenn. Say hi, Glenn.
Hi, Glenn. And we're both on the Adversary engineering and R&D side of Grey Noise. We call ourselves Gray Noise Labs because we're not very clever about naming things. And our team crafts and deploys detection rules. We call them tags.
Uh, we craft detection environments, which is a really fancy phrase for we deploy honeypots, and we hunt for threat actors and for zero days in our data. And we're here today to talk to you about the newest member of our team.
Orby. Orbi is an internal AI-powered threat intelligence analyst that helps us make sense of what's happening on our planetary-scale global observation grid. And the truth is, as you're going to hear, we were overwhelmed trying to find truly meaningful new signal in all the noise that we capture.
And that's how Orby came to be. So we're gonna talk to you about what Orbi is, why we literally had to build it, the lessons that we learned while bending it to our collective will, and the outcomes that we achieved after building it. And we may talk about futures if we have time left.
Uh, but we're gonna tell you all we can about our friendly neighborhood spherical spelunker, and we have got some goodies to give you as well. Feel free to go to this right now, because there's some slides you're going to need to look at, the things I'm there for, because we realize these screens just aren't going to show them. And you're looking at screens anyway, so, like, feel free to do that. And all you Zoom people get to see them before everybody else, so you guys have fun.
for those things. And… oh, good, I actually made it big enough. So, Orby's actually gonna do a threat hunt while we're talking to you today. It takes around 14 minutes, so hopefully we'll get done in time to co-join it. Uh, I found some weird base, double base64 encoded stuff, and Orbi's gonna go look through our fleet of honeypot data to figure out what it is without me intervening with it at all.
And we'll show you the progress throughout, and hopefully to be done with this at the end, and we can see what it is.
Now, Orby turns out to be a reverse origin story. Normally, the hero causes villains to be created. In this case, Orby was born out of necessity due to the villain known as React to Shell.
Uh, this is… this thing was terrible. How terrible? This is how terrible. It came on the scene back in December of 2025. It was bad. It wasn't as bad as Log4j, but it was pretty bad. And this is just an example of the data that we saw every single day, the number of sessions coming in.
And the onslaught that we had to deal with ever since then, too, because this goes to, like, just last week. Everybody tried to sling, react to shell payloads at whatever they could on the internet to get their share of all the things census inventoried that was out there for these things.
And by January 6th, we had observed over 8,200 unique IPs from over 1000 ASNs that were slinging 70,000 completely unique payloads trying to compromise React2Shell. And I just felt compelled to note.
This is one of more than a few of, with the help of Claude, AI-generated payloads, and we can talk to you about payloads. We have a website you can go to explore those as well. With massively diverse network fingerprints. And if Glenn or I tried to do this stuff on our own without the help of something else.
It would have driven us crazy, and as you can see, Orby was kind of pissed at us for having to do this work as well. So this is Orbi. This is the nutrition facts for Orbi. If you have that linked up as well, there's a bigger version of this out there, and we're gonna go through some specifics, but you can find a lot more in the repo as well.
And, uh, it runs in a very customized Claude code environment. We're going to throw that away soon and build our own because we reached the limits of what Claude code can actually go do. It coordinates between 12 and 16 MCP servers, and around 7 plus investigation skills, which we are going to cover a couple here. However, with all that, it's a really light footprint. Most of the work is done in remote servers like Archemy or our API.
LocalDuckDB does all the analysis, and you'll see why in a minute, and the LLM takes care of a lot of work for us as well, too. And the goal for this is to save us a bunch of time, deliver structured, reproducible, and validated — that's because of him — threat hunting analyses and other artifacts that uses our data. And you're going to see all the other stuff that we actually have to go to do that.
Yeah, so Bob started the story, but you can, you know, to reframe that again, why does Orbi exist? And it's because we are tired. And here's why, as we have a look at just a few seconds of PCAPs and sessions that we see in our fleet on a pew map, because everyone loves pew maps.
That was a hackathon project. Just in the last 90 days, we're looking at three… like, we have a fleet of over 3,000 sensors, 90-plus countries, 3,500 detections, 200 attacker profiles, and those are growing by the week, pretty much. And then underneath all that, growing by the second, again, over the last 90 days, we're talking 22 terabytes of packet captures, 32 terabytes of session information.
And 20 million elastic documents. So, this is what one small team at a startup is responsible for sifting through the noise to be able to find the signal, to be able to deliver the protections to our customers and see what's growing… going on on the internet.
So, in the end, we scaled our fleets, but the scale is what broke us. So we built Dorby.
It's a good thing Orbi never gets tired. Nope. So, one thing I am still stunned by in 2026 is that folks get tripped up that these LLMs don't come preloaded with everything you need and they just dismiss them outright. Even the ones that have been purpose-built for that, like, I won't mention some of the security foundation models, but.
They're not great. We've tried them all. And even these fancy new ones that came out in November that we're all, like, singing the praises of, they're good, but they don't have everything that we need, as you just heard, too, to do what we need it to do. And I liken this to the scene in The Matrix where Tank is uploading jiu-jitsu into Nioh. That's the problem.
that we're trying to solve, that we've all… that you've heard throughout today trying to solve. Orby starts with an empty head every single time, just like Claude does. You can give it memory, but it still fires up with an empty head. For our threat hunting context, it's actually, by default, about as smart and helpful.
As, like, a 13-year-old with access to both a flamethrower and Wikipedia, so not, not really, not really helpful.
So the skill system is how we load it up. And we have individual skill directories, and each one is a structured system prompt and associated resources and tools that define workflow phases that Orbi is going through. Now, the Orbi that we fired up before, it's going to go through about six workflow phases.
We may get to see a little bit of, like, workflow 2 or 3 as we check in on in a minute. There's mandatory constraints. There's definitions of anti-patterns, because you've got to tell it what it shouldn't do, not just what it should do.
and output specs, so we get the precision output that we need for ourselves and for the customers and our partners that we give it to in particular domains. I tried, and Glenn has tried to keep the skills mostly in natural language so that anybody on the team can work with them, but their SQL and Bash and Go code and other things associated with them as well.
But we really tried to make it as code-light as possible. So we're not going to have a chance to go through all of these things. Please talk to us afterwards. I'll show you everything that we can show you. We're going to talk about the tag triage skill and the census enrichment ones in detail. But let me talk about the other ones. The threat hunting one is what Orbi's doing, so you're going to see that, the output of that, so we won't talk about that much. We have a Markdown writing skill because it turns out Claude sucks at Markdown. It may look like it does, great job.
And so we actually had to build custom markdown skills so it does really good precision markdown that translates well to PDF and to Google Docs, unfortunately. We have a PCAP analysis skill because we capture a ton of PCAP, as Glenn mentioned, and we need to help it understand how to do work with it. We're going to give it tools, too, in a little bit to work with them, too.
For anyone that works with out-of-band security testing domains, OST domains, we give it a skill to know everything it needs to know about those domains and how to work with them and tie infrastructure together with that, along with the MCP server that you'll see soon, too. Virustotal, you all know what that is, you wouldn't be here if you didn't know what that is.
And he's gonna drone on for, like, 2 minutes about finding his validation because he cares about stuff like that. So I'll let him do that later. So this is the tag tree skill. It's how Orby works. You can't read that, so basically, if you didn't get the URL before, go for it there, because you can see it. Uh, we have over 3,500 detection rules, tags.
We need to know what's important at any given moment in time, and especially, like, what was important from yesterday to today, or over the weekend, or even from a particular defined time period. So that's what we did. We helped Orvi with a skill understand how to go do what it needed to go do to do that. And it gives me briefings on a regular basis for those.
One thing to kind of call in mind, there's been a theme throughout the conference, and it's kind of… it's kind of bittersweet to go last for the whole talk, but that gives us the privilege of kind of pulling in some of the conversations that have happened earlier in the week. Um, but there's been a theme of, like, how these skills are so important, and that, you know, humans are still very involved in the meaningful output using AI. And this is actually a really good call out to that.
I don't really compliment Bob a lot in person or virtually actually, but he built this skill. So Bob has a data science background. If you're not familiar with his work, you've probably seen it somewhere. But he built this skill, the language model didn't figure out how we want to do the z-scale analysis and stuff, so… He built the skill that let Orbi do the thing in a way that works for us. So basically, you know, Bob is smart. Sorry, I had to say that. Bob is smart, but Orby's fast, working all the time. So by putting those things together is what really leveled up the game.
So, just kind of another plus one to what we've been hearing about how skills and human-driven skills and putting intentionality and kind of how you develop those skills really matter for meaningful use. So, I'm slow? Just move on. I'm slow. No, no, just move on. Okay. All right. You know Q1 review time. I said you were smart, it's fine. Uh, so… The one thing I want to call out to this is this is completely modifiable. He created a preferences system for Orbi that lets us tune it without changing the core skills. And a little thing happened on Saturday that everyone probably realizes, which changes things up from an internet perspective. So we actually worked with Orbi to craft a specialized preferences to do an analysis of conflict.
basically anything associated with the conflict. You can talk to us about what it actually did. This is an example of one of the things it did to create what's out there. Those are structured things that are outputs. Again, we can talk about that there, but we now can separate the conflict-related stuff from the rest of the stuff we have to care about. By the way, while the conflict's been going on and you're all looking over there, the ransomware attackers have been having a great time building an inventory, so you might want to watch that in your orgs when you go back.
Uh, the other one, I want to give a shout out to Census, because we… our data is great, I love our data. We got great insights from our data, and then when we plugged census into this data, it leveled it up like crazy.
They have global… if you don't know who they are, they've got global internet scan data. It puts it at our fingertips and puts it at Orbi's fingertips. We get to turn IPs into full infrastructure profiles. We use that, as well as our JAW 4, which is a new way of identifying network fingerprints, and those OST domains I talked about.
And we can map actual attacker infrastructure better than we have ever been able to do before. Well, okay, or we can, to be honest about it. And as an example, you can see that report there. And I want to just call out this one because this is in the repo as well.
It found a cluster in a Canadian hosting provider of… it was a huge cluster, and 2,000 of those nodes were slinging gigantic scads of credentials against SonicWallets for the past 70 days. This is something we just found last week.
We actually give all this data to the CCCS, and they're hopefully going to shut it down. Along with that, though, we actually worked with Orbi. The idiots did leave their whole Go profile path open to their proxy network. So Orby and I managed to dig into it, profile the whole thing, and we could see exactly what it would go do.
I kind of want these proxies, they're really good. I hate saying nice things about bad guys, but this is a really great proxy network. You all should try to tap into it before they shut it down.
Uh, you know about skills, so they're just text files with SQL and Bash and stuff, so I'm not gonna go into if you saw that. I just want to prove that we do work, so we've been working for the past couple weeks on modifying these things. I think we tweaked the skills almost every single day. Do not judge me by my commit messages. That is not nice. Don't do it. I'm judging.
Let's chicken on Orbi. Oh, wow, you made it to phase four already, so it's about to do the final report. It has gone through, grabbed that IP address, looked it up in Census, looked it up in VirusTotal, combined it all together, got the job for us, did whatever it could, and we're gonna see it probably also did a bunch of fun stuff on the back end that maybe we might not have done or done as fast.
It's back to the Matrix one more second. There's that scene near the end where Trinity and Neo drop into the pocket construct and just load up guns. Lots of guns. And MCPs are that scene. An LLM with the right tools.
And it can get the job done really, really well. So Orbi connects to a dozen or so of these things. Some are in-house. I'll walk through some of them. Some we're converting to in-house because reasons. And if you give it access to the right data, it can do things like, hey, here's the non-payload, and then give us a fully sourced.
campaign investigation. So these are the tools that we gave it. There's a little more, but these are the ones that matter the most. We work with Ground Truth Data. You've heard that a lot today, which I really appreciated hearing that other people are doing that too. Archemy, which is kind of like Wireshark for the internet scale data for us, and our Grain Noise API data, that's our ground truth. That's where we need to get things from. The Java 4 MCP server has every single thing I know and he knows and my team knows about.
which are the fingerprints on the network that these things talk to. This helps us connect tissue in the infrastructure that's out there. Same thing for the OST domains. I worked with a friend and customer over at Sandia. We baked every single thing we know about these domains into an MCP server, which you're getting a link to today, because you all can use this. It's a command line tool, and I'm going to want to dig into that OS.
Yeah, it's actually really important. We use DuckDB for analytics, because friends don't let friends let LLMs do their own analytics because they suck at everything if you don't give them tools. Glenn and myself and a bunch of others have a ton of knowledge about how to do PCAP analysis.
And we gave it T-shark and wrapped an MCP server on it without 30 years of information to let it dissect and do what it can with PCAPs, because we sometimes have to go into those two. Suricata, same thing, tool thing, VirusTotal, you know what that is. Going back to Census platform and threat hunting again, just to shout out to them, it's leveled up our analyses and their MCP servers are awesome.
We did have to write that skill to use it, though, so it's kind of awesome. And I also have to shout out to Feedly. If you're not using Feedly CTI, this is not a commercial. It really provides all the external context that we need to make this whole thing really, really smart.
And one last matrix scene, since this was for Hunting in the Matrix. Near the end, Neo sees that helicopter losing control before it actually crashes. He acts on what he sees coming.
Not what's already happened. And that's the frame for this section. Safety is prevention and validation as detection.
So, going along with Bob's matrix reference, because I was forced into that, uh, what happens when there's a glitch in the matrix? And thinking about this from the other side, for me, it was a confident wrong answer reaching a stakeholder who then takes action on that information.
And in our space, this can cause real harm, physical or virtual. So how do we stop it from doing dumb things? And then how do we get it to tell it on itself or understand when it does those dumb things anyway, even though we asked it not to?
So in the real world, we have guide rails and guardrails, so kind of mimic this a bit in our Orbi. I guess no one else here has really named their… Alright, well… You should. Yeah. Give it a name, it helps. Uh, so that in Orbi, it exists with, like, guard hooks, so those are just shell commands that we're… kind of policing the behavior that the models, you know, you're like, please don't do this, but it's gonna do it anyway. Um, using a guard hook kind of just terminates that process right away and makes it move on, so it's just a safety check. Uh, decision trees, that's simply just going A to B to C to make sure it's doing the order properly. Um, you can think of that as, like, you can't have dessert before dinner.
Uh, bulletproof patterns. Um, we're traditionally used to code, which has kind of a go-no-go outcome, but writing does not, and for, like, an example of a bulletproof pattern we're using here is just timestamp conversions. Like, there's a lot of ways to do that, but, like, don't.
Don't think about it, just do it this way, move on, please. Uh, and then checklists. I don't think it's really surprising to think about AI being very Type A, but it helps to just embrace that. So give it a checklist.
Make it a, you know, check these off as you go, this is what you should do, and then at the end, at least you're not making assumptions about what it did, because you expected it to do it. Like, it will, you know, ensure that it at least covered the bases that you had expected it to do.
But those are the guardrails, but guardrails don't prevent crashes, they change just what happens after the crash happens, and sometimes they can even make the crash worse. So, how do you prepare for those eventual failures? You crash test it. You build detections. So, in Orbi, again, this looks like a few things. Footnotes, like old school footnotes, super helpful here.
Um, you can have a subject matter expert reviewing a report, have the footnote, make the footnote really accessible, like with a URL or something, to go to the actual data source, just, you know, check for some hallucinations. And you can get a really quick feel for the vibe of the report and the accuracy and start building or losing confidence in its output.
logging everything, we are cybersecurity after all, right? Running assessments, this one's kind of fun. You can kind of think of it as therapy for your agent. You ask it, like, how did this go? Like, what was hard for you? What could have made this better? How could we have sped this up?
And it will answer and it will engage with you. So you can, I mean, don't get psychosis, but… but so you can take that and then move those findings further up in your skills, you know, kind of shift left mentality, to make this work more effectively downstream.
Uh, the validator, I'm gonna touch on this on the next slide, but essentially, you know, taking a finished report, extracting every claim is how we, uh, implemented this, and then using a completely different model.
revalidate those claims and look for inaccuracies, and give feedback on, you know, maybe it's a 1% or half a percent off because we're dealing with live data, so when it re-queried, like, there's more now, because it's been 10 minutes since the last query, so that's okay. Um, or sometimes it's like, yeah, I did the math wrong, my bad. I can't do, you know, they suck at dates, maybe.
Uh, and then we've heard this a lot this week, which is extremely encouraging. A human in the loop. You're still responsible for the output of these reports. It's your company, it's your brand, it's your reputation, whatever. Um, so you have to stand behind it, you can't just outsource all of that risk and liability to that.
I think of this as a, like, if you have a self-driving car and it crashes into a street lamp, it's still your problem. It's still going to be your headache. You're still responsible for what happened there.
So as soon as Orby started producing real output, my first question was, you know, how do, again, how do we stand behind this? How can I trust this thing? And early on, I started engaging with it, asking our questions.
How do I know this is correct? Because now you're calling yourself out. And it got a little sassy with me, which I appreciated, actually, so I was like, okay, we've got… So did I, so did I, actually, yeah. Yeah, we got something to work here. But yeah, so then I started making a skill for that, the validator is clearly what we call it, but… Um, so running the validator on some earlier reports.
It had some findings, like 78 claims extracted, less than half were verified. Like, that's alarming. In one case, it made up tag names. So, for gray noise, tags are the root of our findings and our output. Making up tag names is really bad. Um, and it turns out, after investigating that, the model was summarizing the tag names to try and be helpful, but then by the end of all of this run.
The tag names were all different, so it had made up a bunch of tag names. So, again, take that information, put it in a skill, tell it not to summarize or alter or trinicate tag names and problem solve. Um, so you just have to kind of engage with it. And then it also just added something to this as a kev once. I can't explain that one. I don't know if it has a crystal ball. I should have actually checked to see if it got added by now. But anyway, that was interesting, but it was an easy find because on the revalidation.
It was like, it's not there. Like, all right, fix it. Yeah, so like I said, the goal is just to reduce what the validation finds by taking those learnings and moving them further up in the chain.
Cool, so we're pretty much almost at time, so I'll go through this real quick, just to show you it's a real thing. These are linear tickets that Orby's created over the past around month and a half, uh, when it's found stuff and told us to go do things with it. And it's really good at doing that, because it told me directly, I'm supposed to go file this GitHub takedown notice because it found malware on GitHub and I had to go do that.
I don't like that, because, like, Microsoft never takes anything down, but that's just another thing. At least it had the nicety to give me what I should tell it when I did that, and I actually did it. I think that counts as human in the loop, though. It might, it might. It did it, but then I kind of restarted the same session every day to keep memory.
So the next morning, I fired it up. It's like, did you file that ticket? And like I had to paste the URL for it to actually know I did that. So the error of our AI overlords are actually here. I actually don't need to go through this slide because you've heard it from almost everybody today. This is great. My one takeaway. So this is our manifesto, how to design what your elements are going to go do. It's all this one's up there as well too.
I'm just going to say, assume these things are going to do something really stupid and plan around it. Give it data, tell it what to do, retell it what to do, tell it what not to do, and then the last thing I'll say is, the last one is also important to save money. We do the real hard work on Opus 4.6, and we do all the lightweight work on either Haiku or Sonnet to take things a little bit cheaper. It's been really cool this week to see, like we brushed over that slide really quickly and all this is online.
So you can see it later. Oh, and here it's running his stupid findings valid. It takes so much time, who cares about validation? But it's been cool this week to see how we've all kind of come to the same conclusions for that manifesto, which is why we could brush over it. So I'm a little bit more optimistic at the end of this conference than I was at the beginning. Yeah, so we're not going to go through the report here. We didn't think we'd have time for it. The report that it made is up there, you'll see it, it's pretty easily.
You've got a skill you can run against this MCP server, which you should do because it's got great contextual data. You've got a free Suricata MCP server if you work with Suricata, it's great for iterating through testing rules and testing PCAPs, et cetera. And you've also got a host domain command line tool and MCP server as a result of this, too. So you got a lot of gifts. And this is all real, too, so, like, feel free to use it and, like, go hunt and look in your environment. And this is how you get a hold of us. We really suck at social media.
So that research at Grand IO is probably what you should do. And feel free to file issues and stuff on the GitHub stuff, because we're going to keep making these things better and you can help us make it better, too. So thank you all. Appreciate it.
Open source and a recap of the themes of the day. Great way to end. Nailed it. Let's do questions.
Come on. No question? Oh, here we go, great. There will be questions. It always takes seven seconds.
Actually, a question that I have been wanting to ask, and you're the lucky ones to get it. So, everybody these days seems to be using Claude Code to.
orchestrate the agents, work over the agents. Have you thought, and have you tried to use, like, something like Landgraph, LangChain, instead of what is good, what is not? That's an awesome question, and as I mentioned, we have hit the limits of Claude code, because it was meant for something else completely different than what we're trying to do with it.
We worked with it because it's free and it's been great, and it's helped us get to where we are. We need to create our own threat hunting agent framework that knows what to go do. Yeah, so we are absolutely going to explore that. We are probably going to try to do our own with Go first, because I like writing Go code, weirdly enough. Or actually, I like… okay, that's not true anymore. I like working with Claude code to write Go code now.
I still like writing Goku, but I like it better when it can help me go do that. So yeah, that's a great question. And for everyone that's trying to do this in-house, start with Claude Code. It's the best thing out there. You're going to outgrow it, and you should really consider moving to something else. But the great thing is you have a real friend to help you. Like Claude's my buddy, and it can help you guys do it too, so it's great.
So, a follow-up to that. When do you outgrow it? What are the limitations? When do you outgrow it? Oh, when do we outgrow it? Orbi's at 093, and I think when I kind of get it, we have a couple more things to tweak, and after 1.0, we're going to be going to the next thing, because we need to expand it to do other data and other sources.
What it can do now is great. I think that's when we need to branch it out and do this. So a lot about context window size. Yeah, like, because I don't really want to spend money on a million cons… a million token context window. I like Anthropic a little, but not that much. I'm not gonna give them that much money, so… Any more? Nothing else. We're around, we can show you the report, go to the repo. It's all yours. All right. Thank you, man. Thank you so much. Thanks.
So that's the end of the scheduled talks. Uh, so here's what we're gonna do. There are… Let's say a couple things that people wanted to present on that they didn't get a chance to, that we know about, and there are probably many things that people wanted to get a chance to present on that they wanted to but didn't get a chance to, but that we didn't know about. Downstairs, there are going to be two.
Last-minute lightning talks. Number one is… Uh, effort is all you need testing LLM applications for prompt injection with Spikey, so this is spikey.ai and its creators and some of the explorations they've done with that, as well as Jean-Claude Van CTF.
Claude in real-time attack and defense environments. So, uh, if you're interested in either of those, go downstairs. Up here, what we're gonna do is we're gonna do, like, 15 minutes of just open flash talks. Uh, so I'm gonna ask Ben, our AV guy, to, uh.
Make sure that we have three minutes on the clock for everyone, no more than 3 minutes. But anything that you want to talk about, we'll just kind of open the floor. A couple ideas.
something, a framework that you think we should talk about, a bit of research that you wanted to present, or just a straight-up rosebud thorn, something that you learned that you're excited to put to use, something you want to build, something that you learned that you're worried about. So, Gadi, do you want to?
You want to kick it off and run it, and I'll hold the audience mic.
So I found a few people in the hallway, so if I talked to you about having 30 seconds to 1 minute to talk about something, and you were foolish enough to say yes, please come up. Please come up.
I think, uh… let me read the least. So we have Rignotch, right?
We have Ilya. You guys just start coming up here, and then whoever has some thought on the topic they would like to share, please just start lining up here. We'll kick you off.
No longer working? There we go. So Ilya is here, perfect. So I'll start and share a thought. We're all doomed!
No, nobody buys that. Okay, then in that case, you heard enough from me. Let's give it to Ilya, and I'll just say before Ilya speaks, Ilya is one of the smartest people in AI security, not because I say so, but because the world decided so. He's the guy behind Camel.
So, I'm gonna give it to him, and I'm gonna count 30 seconds, although Aaron is nice with the 3 minutes. Go!
Hello. I wouldn't call myself the smartest person in the room, definitely not. I agree with the doomed assessment, but I think we can enable more things than disable. So I think my hot take, I've written papers about this. The most triggering one, especially if you're a cryptographer, I was chatting with some cryptographers, is that.
I think trusted AI models enable a new kind of private inference whereby you don't need cryptography anymore.
So, normally, you need cryptography because, say I wanted to pass a message to Gadi, but he lives in another country, and somebody travels there, so I need a trusted third party to give my message to and pass it on, right? But basically, what I'm arguing is that.
These models, for many use cases, can become such trusted models under quite different trust assumptions that we are commonly used to. To give you an example, like with cryptographers, I tend to talk about YOU millionaire's problem. Let's say I have some money, Gadi has some money.
Want to find who's richer without showing each other how much money we have? We can imagine a setup in which we both agree on the model. Let's say we say German models are unbiased for the purposes, we tested them, they can do this. We both agree on the prompt that goes into the model, like, which number is bigger, the first or the second.
We both agree that we typing into the keyboard connected into the model a number, and then we both agree that the output of the model can only be the first or the second, and nothing but. And in this setup, it becomes quite clear that you no longer need to put this complex, crazy complex FHE scheme inside.
And then, bam, it works. And I think the killer application for this is in trusted execution environments, where people don't want to give you the code to run an attestation over. What you can do is, you can load the model to become a private auditor and ask questions about the code base that is loaded inside, over which you can't compute hashes.
And, uh, yeah. So I think we live in the world in which these models can enable, like, private inference of a new kind for many of the problems.
I don't know if it was a half a minute.
Thank you, Ilya. Greg, run in. Come on, people, line up. Just, it can be a thought, like, my God, I love Claude Code. Anybody wants to say that, my God, I love Claude Code. Cursor. Copilot, anybody? Just, if you have a thought, if something hit you during this conference, we're only going to do this for a few minutes, come up.
You're up. Awesome. Uh, hi, I'm Greg. I'm the Chief Security Officer for Expel.
I don't know about you guys, but I'm, like, utterly blown away by some of the stuff that I heard here the past two days. My mind is, like, full of, like, the new possibilities, and, like, frankly, some of them are amazing, and some of them are terrifying. Um, but I think one of the things I really took away from this is.
We are absolutely not ready for this, for what's happening right now. And I think I have two asks for everybody that's here. One, we got to go out and make sure that our companies and our families and our friends understand what happened here the past two days and the and the new ideas and the things that are coming.
We have to go out and make sure that we're getting our companies and our families ready. And number two, my second ask is, if you've still got any AI skeptics in your network, if you still got anyone to talk to is like not sure this is real or this is coming, those are the people we need to reach out and grab a hold of and give a hug, because.
They have no idea what's coming. So I want to thank you all for an amazing two days. I really feel like we marked a moment together, and I'm looking forward to doing it again. Thank you.
Hey, uh, so I'm Chris Blanco. I'm here from ClickUp. I'm the head of application security over there, and I do a lot of product design as well. And that's just because that's what I've done a lot in my career. And at ClickUp, it's become really important, because here we're dealing with a situation that I haven't heard very many people here talk about yet.
We're developing product, and as you're developing product, you're realizing that you're building a platform for agents to run on top of.
And so, for context, like what ClickUp has is this space where everyone's got a workspace, it's combining all your productivity tools into one place, context is all available. It makes our agents really powerful, and we control, like, an agent system prompt, and otherwise users get to put their own things on top of it with tools, integrated MCP service, et cetera.
And I'm really growing concerned about this because we are creating the situation which is different from what all of you have talked about. A lot of us have talked about things that are like, what I'll coin as a single-player problem.
Where you've got one agent, and you're trying to monitor the actions of that one agent on that one endpoint, and how it interacts with those other systems. But I'm worried about what I'll call a gossip problem in this multiplayer environment.
Or we've got different people with different scopes of access, with different agents that might have different contexts and access to different external systems, and all of them are really eager to please you and each other.
And they're listening to each other, because they're all in the same workspace. And so it's really trivial for one bit of information to go from one agent to another faster than anyone can reasonably control it, and data control is quickly going out the window, despite us having the ability to add a check at first time of first agent check.
But if someone summarizes something as an intent, and drops it in some other object, we quickly have to start thinking about, well, where the else is that gonna go? And that's going faster than we can reasonably control. And so, like, I think about this a lot. Um, there are probably some intelligent things that we can do within our own workspace to tag information that says something like.
Well, hey, I know that that is coming from an external source.
But anyway, I probably would be interested in talking to some other people about this afterwards. So if you're interested in product design, let me know.
Is that timer working? Cool. Hi, folks. My name is Ariana. I'm super excited to be here. Thank you. Um, I just want to spend a minute and 54 seconds or less, talking about HAMA's cybersecurity researcher, who was an AI skeptic and is no longer. And so my background is in data-driven security. I take a bunch of data about the world and try to figure out how can we make things safer for people across the internet.
Recently, I have really been drawn to this problem of pig butchering. Who has gotten a text that says, "Hey John, what's up? Are we ready for golf?
Yeah? Hey! Exactly, great, great. Um, it turns out that this sort of scam is new, it's growing in size, it is a multi-billion dollar industry. And I, as a researcher, have data that shows that they are not using AI yet to scale it.
Right? Oh, there's a ton of news on this. This problem is being propagated by, unfortunately, human trafficking victims. However, they can start to use AI to scale even more, make it smarter, make it better, and enact more harm.
And so I am with a team right now, and we are trying to defend people by combining cybersecurity and AI 45 seconds. To stop this problem. And so as someone who has recently become less of an AI skeptic, I'd like to propose to folks to think about the ways that we can use AI defensively.
To protect victim, to protect our families, to protect our friends, because these problems are growing in size, they are growing in scale, they're gonna start using the AI tools. We should as well.
Thanks, folks. I'm Ariana.
Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm probably going to be faster than two minutes. My name is Art. I represent today a team at my company called Kraken. We are kind of like a mix of people with…
Um, let's call a lot of cyber warfare specifically exposure. Ai researchers, as well as commercial cyber researchers. And I'm here today to just.
Ask you maybe for some feedback, check out our latest research on, um.
Mechanistic interpretability of some of the LLMs where we do feature ablation and obliteration of some of the biggest models out there, and we are probably one of the only teams who we kind of pitch, figured out a so-called domain-specific cybersecurity specific feature ablation.
I would want to ask AI researchers out here, maybe I can do it this way. So there is a website, C-R-A-C-K-E-N.AI. Go to blog, check out our research, give us feedback. You can find me on LinkedIn. Thank you.
Hey, good afternoon, everybody. I'm Rob Joyce, former NSA, and I'm here to implore the CISOs and the security teams who are in attendance to think about getting agentic red teaming running on your networks continuously.
Why? I'll tell you, past life, I led the hackers of NSA, and we succeeded, not because we had amazing people, which we did, not because we had some amazing tools, which we did, but because we knew more about the networks than the people who own them.
operated and defended them, and sometimes more than the security products that they used inside the networks themselves. And so what I'm telling you is the agentic wave that's coming at us right now is doing that detailed research. It's finding the hidden latent flaws, it's finding the unpatched pieces it's finding.
the shadow IT and is finding the misconfigurations at scope and scale. And so you want to pay for that agentic red teaming, because whether you like it or not, somebody's going to do it to you, and you're going to want to get the outcomes and outputs of that agentic survey.
So thanks.
Hi, I'm Andrew. I'm here because I wanted a new fun fact, which is talking after Rob Joyce. Um… Actually, uh, I just had a quick idea from the last talk in terms of moving from the limitations of Claude code. You have, like, an agent that's local. How do I get it to becoming basically its own self?
um, fulfilling, uh, it has the context that it needs, you know, running on its own agent, like, I do security operations, I have a triage agent that I run in Claude Code. Um, now I need to spend another few hours making sure that it runs in a loop, like in a system.
Like Tynes, and it has all the contacts that it needs. Um, how do I do that really well? I have no idea, so I'm gonna go and screw around and fight out, and then I'm gonna do it again the next week for the next problem. So, I don't know if this is a new startup idea for somebody, because I don't want to do that, but… If you can make that easier for me, I'll pay you to do it.
Thank you.
Hello. I just wanted to come up and say one thing that I didn't really hear a lot about that I am taking a huge interest in is local models. I know that we're using.
the cloud and the power there. to do some really amazing stuff, agentic stuff. But there is local models that are capable and they will finish the last 10% that Claude might not be willing to do.
might push back on and uh… If you just buy a few GPUs, you can get those things to happen. And, um, so if anybody's running local stuff.
I have 8 3090s and it's fantastic. It's working great. So come and talk to me after. Thanks.
Hello, my name is Gurib. I'm the founder and CEO of a company called Archaea. We are a secure runtime to build agents in regulated domains. One of the coolest things we've built is that we separated the agent identity from the underlying code that it actually runs it.
This makes AI agents runnable on any platform, interoperable with any LLM. And we are looking to build the specification.
No pictures. Oh, you lost your chance, next. I wanted to extend the specification. I understand. Should have gone for the specification. I love you, but no pitches. Yeah, I was just an and pulled somebody offstage. I apologize, everybody. I'm sure he's a great guy, but no pitches. Okay, so anybody else wants to come now and speak about something? Last chance?
Or forever, forever… oh, come up, come up, sir.
If you can think of something from what you guys do that is not a pitch, you can come back up, sir.
It's kind of ironic. I was just about to say, like, this is one of the greatest conferences that didn't have any pitches. I didn't feel like people were selling stuff, and so I hope that culture, like, stays during the next event. Um, I know everyone, or most people here on Slack.
I know when I go back to work, I'm gonna be on my own, and I'll… but I will poke back in every now and then. I'm hoping everyone else does, because I think we already have a great community on that Slack, um, and I'm prompted, so stay in touch. Yeah.
Thank you. Hey, everybody. My name is Josh. Massivescale.ai. One thing I'm really focused on.
It's trying to simplify. All of these messages to your leaders.
Um, this started because my wife is very interested in AI, but she never understood anything I'm talking about.
And everything you guys talked about here, amazing. If you saw Carl's talk yesterday, um… Intercepting attention layers within the model to put quality gains, like, amazing, mind-blowing. I think it makes sense to all of us.
But to the point about. Going home and teaching everybody what we're facing.
I think, think about simplifying this. And I like to think about it as like an intern or a digital employee.
The way I've explained it to some of the leaders that have resonated is, you know, would you give your intern keys to the safe? A very difficult job? Or would you make them earn autonomy?
Uh, trust is earned, it's not granted. Um, when I explain these things to the leaders I work with, they get it. I just published Agentic Trust Framework on Cloud Security Alliance's blog.
It talks about five simple questions that are very simple. Who are you? Identity. What are you doing? Behavior.
Um, where are you going? Segmentation. What are you eating, and what are you serving?
Data inputs, data governance. Um, and what if you go rogue, which is anomaly detection, right? It's five very simple questions, and if you think about agentic AI as a digital worker.
And you explain these five questions, the normies get it, right? If you can get the normies to get it, then they can actually do something about it. Check it out.
Hi, everyone. It's an amazing conference. Thank you. It's Ragini Ramalingam from Snowflake. We've heard so much about.
All of the problems and all of the threats associated with AI, and all the enterprises are adopting AI at breakneck speed, including ours. And the biggest challenge, you know, being on the enterprise security side is.
That all of… most of the AI tools that are adopted in the enterprise do not have enterprise-grade controls, security controls, and features get released, but, you know, security controls are an afterthought, or we have to work with vendors to get them in. So if we can come together as a community and actually.
influence our gen AI tools and AI tool vendors to actually bake in enterprise-grade security controls as they release features. I think that would be a great win. And if anyone's interested in partnering… You know, please hit me up on LinkedIn. Thank you.
So, we didn't define no pitches, and therefore I'm very happy to invite this wonderful person back to talk to us about AI security.
So to continue my nut pitch, uh… We believe that we want to build verifiable AI agents in order to make them verifiable, we need something to identify, or what is an AI agent. So we are hoping to work on open specification to define exactly what an AI agent is, what makes up an AI agent, because we see AI agents are becoming economic actors. They can actually buy things on our behalf. They are making decisions that affect real people and real money.
So when a decision is made, how can we point to something to say that is the agent that made that decision, and we think an open specification for an AI agent is needed. So that's what we are working on. If you're interested, please talk to me. Thank you.
That was a pitch. That was 100% a pitch, and I ended up being an SL again, because you're not coming back up.
Okay, um… I would really like to thank, before we finish this conference, Aaron.
Who has been…
Yeah, I mean, this guy has been working around the clock here, just making sure everything runs smoothly on the stage. He has to run in, like, one minute.
And he had to deal with me, and my schedule changes. Does anyone watch Taskmaster?
Does anyone get, like, a vibe here? I do everything he tells me, I promise you.
Just saying. Thank you, truly. Pierced. This is fun. This was super fun. I'm glad we did this, and I hope we get to do it again.
Oh, hell no. So… Um, final words, final words. I guess that's my role here today.
I wrote notes. Because memory sucks.
Before the notes, actually. I told you… Yesterday morning that usually people thank their sponsors, and in this particular case, I wanted you to actually find them and shake their hands, because these people came in when they had no reason to. They couldn't get the list of attendees, they couldn't get talks, they couldn't get anything.
And they gave us money anyway, especially last minute, two weeks, a week before the con, when we had to grow into 700 people to let, like, 400 people off the waiting list. These people just came in and gave us money expecting nothing just for the community.
So if you end up seeing any of them, I mean, Gnostic is me, you know me already, but TakDeck with Kyle, and honestly, Kyle made this thing happen is fucking incredible, right? I'll… White Rabbit, Halcyon Futures and Halcyon Ventures. Just shake their hands. Remember, they cared about this community without asking for anything. So, thank you to them, really. So just thank our sponsors, thank people who cared about the community.
Second bit is we are thighing our footing. We don't know exactly what we are. We are a community conference, and usually I keep those under 200 people. We are now 700 people a year here and 800 on the Slack.
It's something else. There is maybe two things are on our own horn, but it feels like a warp point in time that really came true here. And I'm not saying this conference will happen again in a year. I'm not saying this conference will grow.
I'm seeing something happen here today, and I think it's about forming a new community. We've seen it happen before when DEF CON started, when the threat intelligence community started, when the threat hunting community started. People got together from different walks of life, different areas in security, just made it happen.
And when on the online show we do, Prompt or Get the Fuck Out, when I saw Chris Inglis, right, and was executive director of the NSA in the White House, and Gary Haysliff, who was CISO of SoftBank, and Halver Flake, who is a legendary, as far as I'm concerned, researcher.
And then some students randomly coming in from Singapore or something, and everybody was talking about Claude's context window. I knew we have this community. I knew it was time to do this. So people keep thanking me and the volunteers, because honestly, it's a huge effort. It's not just me. I'm just the front.
Right? And I just called myself fat, didn't I? But regardless, this is truly a huge community. Everybody put in so much effort. Everybody who came in here, all of you, put in so much effort just to be open, to talk to people, and we talked about this, talking to people is horrible, right? We prefer dogs.
But truly, thank you, because it wouldn't have happened without you.
And with that, I will leave you with the following thoughts that I wrote down.
Because I'm not as smart as the people who came on here.
Here we go. Yesterday.
I left you with a lot of thoughts about startups needing to get to product market fit within 3 months or out, even after they found it.
And we talked about how we are moving from quoting my co-founders familiar, from a non-deterministic to… from deterministic to non-deterministic configuration, and that might that mean to security?
We talked this morning about coding engines are cool, but what do we do when everybody, including finance, uses them? And a lot of them already do. We no longer control IT, everybody builds their own infrastructure, right?
So, my understanding for today is as follows. We can't stop the storm.
It's coming, it's here, people don't see it. If they checked it out even a month ago, it's irrelevant.
And we talked several times about how staying on top of things, people feel outmoded. They don't need to be 80 years old to feel outmoded. How am I ever gonna learn this thing? How am I ever gonna keep up? You saw Daniel yesterday coming on to show his work. He's on the edge of this, and he feels old.
It feels like he needs to keep up all the time.
What would I tell these people? It's no longer relevant. So we understand now, and this is from Ryan Moon, who runs stage two downstairs. It's not… I'm not that smart. And I'm going to quote him.
Not exactly because I took it from memory, but being here, it means people here are people who understand.
That we'll have to dump our scaffolding and our infrastructure and all the smart prompts we built every 90 days.
That is a harsh, harsh understanding, but we spent all this time just researching and building our own tooling to be effective when 3 months from now.
It's almost irrelevant compared to what we can do.
But this is… I'm not sure this exact wording, English as second language, but he said, "The people who are here chose to be part of this death trap of doom.
We really enjoy this, right? He deserves your applause. He's an awesome human being. We chose to be here. We are excited about being here, and a lot of people said, this reminds them of the early days of DEFCON. Not sure about that. It feels like we are… several people have said this, like we're in the 90s and the aughts again, where everything is exciting and scary at the same time.
The only thing I really know to say is, we live in the future.
It's exciting. It is a warp point in history that, luckily for us, we get to be a part of this week. Again, I don't know what will happen next week, or if this conference will happen again.
But I want to go over a statement that a lot of people said in 2025, which was AI will not replace you.
A human using AI will replace you. I don't know if that's true anymore.
Or for what? It depends. It changes. Just looking at the rate of change, it's crazy.
And I truly believe that if, as I said, when I look at companies and I'm looking at who might survive this storm.
I think that the only true indicator I have is if the CEO is on Claude Code or Cursor or Copilot or whatever it is.
Which sounds ridiculous to many people. And before we build an internet of agents, I want to quote somebody I truly appreciate from the DC area. His name is Steve Crocker.
You wrote RFC1, and he's a dear friend. And he told me once a story about sitting in the room for ARPANET, when they're just starting to plan what will happen, and in the first meeting, as they were sitting down, they wrote a lot of stuff on paper.
In one of the sentences they wrote down was, networks are for people.
And I don't know if this network will be for people for very long, but I do know that, at least for now, unlike in the 50s and 60s, where science fiction predicted it will have robots doing our laundry and not playing chess, it's kind of turned the other way around.
It still serves us. We're still relevant. And I truly believe the way to stay relevant is to be on the edge, and it's so hard.
And when we get on the edge, it's so hard to get stuck on the narrative. Oh, I have this down, but you're already behind. So if we talk, and I'm not sure I mentioned it before or not, but bringing it all together.
Looking at the nation-state level, people talk about cyber power with a capital P.
I don't know what that means. I don't know if it's NVIDIA and the chips, I don't know if it's OpenAI or Anthropic.
I don't know if it's all the PhDs, but I do know one fact, and that is… This is the level of AI right now.
in the world. This is the level who knows how far it goes, where it can get to.
This is the level where most people operate. I operate here.
Because I don't just talk to ChatGPT or Claude or Gemini.
I understand there is actually multi-torn, I can chat, there is tool use, starting to get into agents, there is the robo snake where you eat your own tail and get your input into the output. There is the agentic flow and the self-healing, and you know what? If we can get people around us, as somebody said on stage a second ago.
To not deny this is happening, but just try it out, and get to that level here. Not here, but just that level here. If only 2% of people we talk to will actually do that, we can change the entire world. Companies, countries, doesn't really matter.
That is my own manifesto, and as I said the first day.
My own right hand at my company and my significant other, unfortunately, is alone in the shelter right now in Israel.
forbade me from ever writing manifestos, at least until I'm one day a billionaire. I hope not. I think I said that the first day. But this is my manifesto, because I'm seeing this pain in everybody here. You're all relevant, some of you are really deep into technology. Some of you are risk executives.
But if we can just reach out and help people just a little bit to understand what's going on, I think that's wonderful. And just to see the rate of change, Rob Joyce, who graced us with the last thing, hey, man, can you count for 30 seconds? I said, yes, so thank you.
said, do your own red teaming. Do your own whatever it is. The attackers are now facing, and I mean, sitting in front of Katie, you understand so much more than me about this, I feel kind of… I'm afraid to talk about this, but the attackers are now facing their own…
Um, singularity. Micro-singularity has happened. In defense, we're not there yet. So, one of the only things we can actually do is take that offensive power and use it.
And Anthropic just came out with this Cloud Code Security and OpenAI before that with Aardvark, and they changed the name now to be Codec security or something like that. And you have all seen what happened in the stock market.
I don't think that was justified, but I think it was a hint of what's to come.
I'm not saying application security won't be here, but it'll be, as Chris Weissopol often says, it will be here, it will be different, and some companies will grow, but honestly, right now, at this stage.
This has been so exciting the past two days. We learn, we see the future, we see the hope, we see the technology, we see the fear, but none of us will be relevant. Not the CISO, not their team, none of us.
If we don't do just one thing, which is start using Claude Code today, and if somebody doesn't use it, kick them.
And it can be cursor, it could be… right now, I'm a code guy, it will change tomorrow, although it's a religion.
So, that's really my call to action to everybody. It's not just about you not feeling outmodded, or you being extremely on top of it. None of us can keep up. Pull one or two people with you just to this level.
And understand that this community here is a community, and the only thing that truly matters is not the talks, and you can see them online for free.
It's just the people you met. Because when it comes down to it, we are people, we talk to each other, and other than just doing our work, putting bad guys in jail, making sure the internet can still function, making sure things are going on, being excited and fun, and showing the people that we're better than them, or whatever it is that motivates you in the hacking world.
Just consider that at the end of the day, we need to understand how, and this is trolls, it used to be Cisco Barclays once said, I want to quote him precisely.
How do we make jobs redundant without making people redundant?
And I have no idea. So I'm gonna focus on my own little space of AI security and for my own startup, we developed the capability exactly like Anthropic's. Yeah, I think Nicolas Carolini is probably far better than I am, okay? But we developed that capability. And I'm looking at Anthropic and saying Anthropic just did it, I'm looking at OpenAI, and that's Devital just doing it. Who am I?
And I'm looking at 50 startups that got funded to do exactly the same stuff of just, let's look for vulnerabilities with LLM, SAST, whatever.
You know what I'm saying, I don't know how open source will protect itself. I don't know how all these companies will protect themselves. I have science fiction ideas of automatic patching and not waiting for vendors and just giving up whatever warranty they didn't give us to just patch on our own. I see the attackers going and launching operations and not even trying to create zero days or prep for months and years in advance.
But just on the fly, creating them as they attack. And imagine all these science fiction world. And I think two years in advance, so it's probably two months out.
And the message connecting everything that I said, from use it today, get your teams to use it today, don't wait, how do we make people not redundant? How do we help people rise to just that small level of using agents right now?
All of that together, in my brain, comes to people and community.
And understanding that we can do things together. It's been incredible.
I have people who are volunteering here. Who are truly CISOs, billionaires, somebody's significant other, researchers, and they just look to be a part. Everybody here looks to be a part. So I would strongly suggest, when this is done, consider using the Slack, consider sending messages, consider using the cards that we created, where everybody wrote who I am, what I can do, how I do it.
How you can help me, how I can help you? Just to keep the conversation going.
And with that, thank you to Ida who is stuck in Israel. Thank you to Kyle, who has done so much. Thank you to all the volunteers. Thank you to Aaron, to Moon. If I start naming names, I'll forget a lot of people, but I do want to make fun of one last guy. And I think you all know where this is going, if you've been reading this slack at all.
And that's Dragos, because now you got Dragos. If you forget to turn off your mic one more time, isn't that guy brilliant, creating an entire online conference with other people who helped?
Uh, who I'm not allowed to name, but he created an entire online conference, not just streaming, with multiple rooms and hosts and whatever, and I begged him today, please open your mic by mistake to keep the guy growing.
So, with that, on that note, today, we don't have official dinner or anything.
What I would suggest, if you haven't done it already, I requested in the morning, is go on Slack and say, I want Italian. I want Japanese, I just want to go for a walk in San Francisco, if you want to do that.
Keep the safe areas. But find other people you know and don't know and just go randomly somewhere.
And enjoy this last night of the conference being together. I have no idea where I will end up, maybe in bed, maybe I'll go to Mills because it's close by and I can just have a burger.
But whatever it is, that's my last call to action to you. Actually, I'll lie one more, and I know about, like, 5 minutes ago, I said it would be my last thing, but I think it connected.
And my active ADHD that's undiagnosed just kicked in, and I forgot what I want to say, which is wonderful to you. So I'll just say, folks, thank you so much. Truly. This would not be what it is without you.
And… Yeah, just that. Thank you very much.
I remember what I want to say, which is one final thing. Yeah, right, right. I wanted to put myself down. So Anthropic OpenAI, I went wide, I allowed myself to go with a stream of thought. So I don't work on that at all. I do, like, coding agents and stuff, irrelevant, so many competitors coming to the market.
But we had an entire capability like theirs. And we looked at it and said, that's not where we focus in any way, right? Anthropic. And more than that, even if we don't focus there, now there are 50 other startups doing this. They're all gonna go out of business unless they pivot, I believe.
What's my only play? And that was open source.
And I guess it's scary to just open source an entire product, but I truly believe, again, to underline what I want to say, that it's about community, it's about open source, it's about doing all these things, because it's the only thing we can do and the only thing we have control over. Thank you.